### Accelerometer (Motion Detection) ###

> The accelerometer block consists of the ADXL345 a digital tri-axial accelerometer that can read up to 16g’s of acceleration.  It is powered by 3.6 V, 140 mA max and has 3 connections to the PIC, Clock, Serial Data Input, Serial Data Output and Chip select. Chip Select is used in initiating SPI(the coding we are using) transactions, it goes low at the start of transmission and high at the end of transmission. The clock controls the timing in which data is sent and received, data is updated on the falling edge of the clock and is sampled on the rising edge. After data addressing occurs the each clock pulse the chip goes to the next register. To read non-sequential registers it has to bring CS to high and drop it back low and readdress the data to get the new register.  Through this process the ADXL will read off the sequential registers of –/+X, Y and Z and send the reading to the [PIC](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PIC_microcontroller). as the chip is detecting acceleration. The [PIC](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PIC_microcontroller). will then take that information and use it to cause the Force Indication LED’s to light up and cause our IR’s to transmit if the throw was strong enough and a correct throw( acceleration in the x&y plane with minimal movement in the Z direction).

http://team-endeavor.googlecode.com/hg/Images/Motion%20Detection.PNG

For more information on the Motion Detection system click [here](http://code.google.com/p/team-endeavor/source/browse/Prototyping/Accereometer/Prototype%20Datasheet%20for%20Acceleration_CG.docx).